1. A unary expression consists of only one operand with no operator.
   a. True
   b. False

2. The left operand in an assignment expression must be a single variable.
   a. True
   b. False

3. Associativity is used to determine which of several different expressions is evaluated first.
   a. True
   b. False

4. Side effect is an action that output from the evaluation of an expression.
   a. True
   b. False

5. An expression statement is terminated with a period.
a. True
b. False

6. A(n) ___________ is a sequence of operands and operators that reduces to a single value.
a. expression
b. category
c. formula
d. function
e. value

7. Which of the following is a unary expression?
a. i + j
b. +a
c. c++
d. scanf (...)
e. x = a * 5

8. The ___________ expression evaluates the operand on the right side of the operator and places its value in the variable on the left side of the operator.
a. additive
b. assignment
c. multiplicative
d. postfix
e. primary

9. ___________ is used to determine the order in which different operators in a complex expression are evaluated.
a. Associativity
b. Evaluation
c. Category

d. Precedence
e. Side effect

10. ___________ is an action that output from the evaluation of an expression.
a. Associativity
b. Evaluation
c. Category
d. Precedence
e. Side effect

11. Which of the following statements about mixed expressions is false?
a. A cast cannot be used to change an assigned value.
b. An explicit cast can be used to change the expression type.
c. An explicit cast on a variable changes its type in memory.
d. An implicit cast is generated by the compiler automatically when necessary.
e. Constant casting is done by the compiler automatically.

12. Which of the following statements about compound statements is false?
a. A compound statement is also known as a block.
b. A compound statement is enclosed in a set of braces.
c. A compound statement must be terminated by a semicolon.
d. The declaration and definition section in a compound statement is optional.
e. The statement section in a compound statement is optional.


# Exercises

13. Which of the following expressions are not postfix expressions?
a. x++
b. --x
c. scanf (...)
d. x * y
e. ++x

14. Which of the following are not unary expressions?
a. ++x
b. --x
c. sizeof (x)
d. +5
e. x = 4

15. Which of the following is not a binary expression?
a. 3 * 5
b. x == 6
c. y = 5 + 2
d. z - 2
e. y != z

16. Which of the following is not a valid assignment expression?
a. x = 23
b. 4 = x
c. y = 5
d. x = 8 - 3
e. x = x - 5

17. If originally x = 4, what is the value of x after the evaluation of the following expression?
a. x = 2
b. x += 4
c. x = x + 3
d. x *= 2
e. x /= x + 2

18. If originally x = 3 and y = 5, what is the value of x and y after each of the following expressions?
a. x++ + y
b. ++x
c. x+++ y++
d. ++x + 2
e. x--- y--

19. What is the value of each of the following expressions?
a. 24 - 6 * 2
b. -15 * 2 + 3 C. 72 / 5
c. 72 % 5
d. 5 * 2 / 6 + 15 % 4

20. What is the value of each of the following expressions?
a. 6.2 + 5.1 + 3.2
b. 2.0 + 3.0 / 1.2
c. 4.0 * (3.0 + 2.0 / 6.0)
d. 6.0 / (2.0 + 4.0 * 1.2)
e. 2.7 + 3.2 - 5.3 * 1.1

21. Given the following definitions, which of the following statements are valid assignments?
#define NUM10 10
int x; int y = 15;
a. x = 5;
b. y = 5;
c. x = y = 50;
d. x = 50 = y;
e. x = x + 1;
f. y = 1 + NUM10;
g. 5 = y;

22. If originally x = 2, y = 3, and z = 2, what is the value of each of the following expressions?
a. x++ + y++
b. ++x - --z
c. --x + y++
d. x-- + x-- - y--
e. x + y-- - x + x++ - --y

23. If originally x=2, y=3, and z=1, what is the value of each of the following expressions?
a. x + 2/6 + y
b. y - 3 * z + 2
c. z - (x + z) / 2 + 4
d. x - 2*(3 + z) + y
e. y++ + z-- + x++

24. If x = 2945, what is the value of each of the following expressions?
a. x / 10
b. x % 10
c. (x / 100) % 10
d. x / 100
e. (x / 100) % 10

25. What is the output from the following code fragment?
int a;
int b;
a = b = 50;
printf ("%d %d", a, b);
a = a * 2; b = b / 2;
printf ("%d %d", a, b);

Problems

26. Given the following pseudocode, write a program that executes it. Use floating-point types for all values.
    1. read x
    2. read y
    3. compute p = x * y
    4. compute s = x + y
    5. total = s2 + s * (s - x) * (p + y)
    6. print total

27. Write a program that reads two integers from the keyboard, multiplies them, and then prints the two numbers and their product.

28. Write a program that extracts and prints the rightmost digit of the integral portion of a float.

29. Write a program that extracts and prints the second rightmost digit of the integral portion of a float.

30. Write a program that calculates the area and perimeter of a rectangle from a user-supplied (scanf) length and width.

31. We are all familiar with the fact that angles are measured in degrees, minutes, and seconds. Another measure of an angle is a radian. A radian is the angle formed by two radii forming an arc that is equal to the radius of their circle. One radian equals 57.295779 degrees. Write a program that converts degrees into radians. Provide good user prompts. Include the following test data in your run:
90° is 1.57080 radians

32. The formula for converting centigrade temperatures to Fahrenheit is:
F = 32 + (C * (180.0 / 100.0))
Write a program that asks the user to enter a temperature reading in centigrade and then prints the equivalent Fahrenheit value. Be sure to include at least one negative centigrade number in your test cases.

33. Write a program that changes a temperature reading from Fahrenheit to Celsius using the following formula:

Celsius = (100.0 / 180.0) × (Fahrenheit - 32)

Your program should prompt the user to enter a Fahrenheit temperature. It then calculates the equivalent Celsius temperature and displays the output as shown below.

Enter the temperature in Fahrenheit: 98.6
Fahrenheit temperature is: 98.6
Celsius temperature is: 37.0

34. Write the C code for each of the following formulas. Assume that all variables are defined as double.
a. KinEn = mv² / 2
b. res = b + c / 2b

35. Write the C code to calculate and print the next two numbers in each of the following series. You may use only one variable in each problem.
a. 0, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, ?, ?
b. 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, ?, ?
c. 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, ?, ?

Projects

36. Write a program that converts and prints a user-supplied measurement in inches into
a. foot (12 inches)
b. yard (36 inches)
c. centimeter (2.54 inch)
d. meter (39.37 inches)

37. A Fibonacci number is a member of a set in which each number is the sum of the previous two numbers. (The Fibonacci series describes a form of a spiral.) The series begins 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, ...

Write a program that calculates and prints the next three numbers in the Fibonacci series. You are to use only three variables, fib1, fib2, and fib3.

38. Write a program that prompts a user for an integer value in the range 0 to 32,767 and then prints the individual digits of the numbers on a line with three spaces between the digits. The first line is to start with the leftmost digit and print all five digits; the second line is to start with the second digit from the left and print four digits, and so forth. For example, if the user enters 1234, your program should print

0 1 2 3 4
1 2 3 4
2 3 4
3 4
4

39. Write a program to create a customer's bill for a company. The company sells only five different products: TV, VCR, Remote Controller, CD Player, and Tape Recorder. The unit prices are $400.00, $220, $35.20, $300.00, and $150.00, respectively. The program must read the quantity of each piece of equipment purchased from the keyboard. It then calculates the cost of each item, the subtotal, and the total cost after an 8.25% sales tax.

The input data consist of a set of integers representing the quantities of each item sold. These integers must be input into the program in a user-friendly way; that is, the program must prompt the user for each quantity as shown below. The numbers in boldface show the user’s answers.

- How Many TVs Were Sold? **3**
- How Many VCRs Were Sold? **5**
- How Many Remote Controllers Were Sold? **1**
- How Many CDs Were Sold? **2**
- How Many Tape Recorders Were Sold? **4**

The format for the output is shown in Figure 3-13.

### Figure 3-13: Output format for project 29

| QTY | DESCRIPTION       | UNIT PRICE | TOTAL PRICE |
|-----|-------------------|------------|-------------|
| xx  | TV                | 400.00     | xxxxx.xx    |
| xx  | VCR               | 220.00     | xxxxx.xx    |
| xx  | REMOTE CTRLR      | 35.20      | xxxxx.xx    |
| xx  | CD PLAYER         | 300.00     | xxxxx.xx    |
| xx  | TAPE RECORDER     | 150.00     | xxxxx.xx    |
|     |                   | **SUBTOTAL** | xxxxx.xx    |
|     |                   | **TAX**     | xxxxx.xx    |
|     |                   | **TOTAL**   | xxxxx.xx    |

Use either defined constants or memory constants for the unit prices and the tax rate. Use integer variables to store the quantities for each item. Use floating-point variables to store the total price for each item, the bill subtotal, the tax amount, and the total amount of the bill. Run your program twice with the following data:

- **SET 1** → 2 1 4 1 2
- **SET 2** → 3 0 2 0 2 1
