
1. The principles of top-down design and structured programming dictate that a program should be divided into a main module and its related modules.
a. True
b. False

2. The function definition contains the code for a function.
a. True
b. False

3. Function calls that return void may not be used as a part of an expression.
a. True
b. False

4. The address operator (&) is used to tell the compiler to store data at an address.
a. True
b. False

5. Variables defined within a block have global scope.
a. True
b. False

6. The process of dividing a program into functions—which in turn are divided into functions until they consist of only elementary processing that is intrinsically understood and cannot be further subdivided—is known as _______.
a. charting
b. flow charting
c. factoring
d. programming
e. structuring

7. Which of the following statements about function declaration and definition is true?
a. The function call is found in the called function.
b. The function declaration requires that the parameters be named.
c. The function definition is done with a function declaration.
d. The function definition contains executable statements that perform the function's task.
e. The function definition header concludes with a semicolon (;).

8. Which of the following is not a part of a function header?
a. Name
b. Parameter list

c. Return type
d. Title

9. Which of the following statements about function parameters is true?
a. Empty parameter lists are declared with the keyword void.
b. If there is only one parameter, the function list parentheses are not required.
c. In the definition of a function, the parameters are known as actual parameters.
d. Parameters are separated by semicolons.
e. The parameters in a function definition are defined in the function's body (local declaration section).

10. Which of the following statements about local variables is false?
a. A local variable's value may be returned through a return statement.
b. Local variables are defined inside a function.
c. Local variables cannot be referenced through their identifiers outside the function.
d. Local variables may be initialized with an initializer.
e. Local variables' names can be the same as the function's parameter names.

11. To tell the compiler to store data at an address, use the
a. address operator (&)
b. array operator ([ ])
c. dereference operator (*)
d. indirection operator (*)
e. pointer operator (*)

12. The function that returns the absolute value of a long integer is _______.
a. abs
b. clabs
c. fabs
d. labs
e. taba

13. Which of the following statements will generate a random number in the range 30-50?
a. rand (33)
b. (rand () % 20) + 1
c. (rand () % 21) + 20
d. (rand () % 21) + 30
e. (rand () % 51) + 1

14. Which of the following statements about structure charts is false?
a. Structure charts are a replacement for flowcharts.
b. Structure charts are the primary design tool for a program.
c. Structure charts are used in a structured walkthrough to validate the design.
d. Structure charts can be used to assess the testability of a program.
e. Structure charts should be created before you start writing a program.

15. Find any errors in the following function definition
```c
void fun (int x, int y)
{
    int z;
    -
    return z;
} // fun
```

16. Find any errors in the following function definition:
```c
int fun (int x, y)
{
    int z;
    -
    return z;
} // fun
```

17. Find any errors in the following function definition:
```c
int fun (int x, int y)
{
    -
    int sum (int t)
    -
    {
        -
        return (t + 3);
    }
    -
    return z;
} // fun
```

18. Find any errors in the following function definition:
```c
void fun (int, x)
{
    -
    return;
} // fun
```

19. Find any errors in the following function declarations:
a. int sum (int x, y);
b. int sum (int x, int y)
c. void sum (void, void);
d. void sum (x int, y float);

20. Find any errors in the following function calls:
a. void fun ( );
b. fun (void);
c. void fun (int x, int y);
d. fun ( );

21. Evaluate the value of the following expressions:
a. fabs (8.5)
b. fabs (-2.4)
c. fabs (-3.4)
d. fabs (-7)
e. fabs (7)

22. Evaluate the value of the following expressions:
a. floor ( 8.5 )
b. floor ( -2.4 )
c. floor ( -3.4 )
d. ceil ( 8.5 )
e. ceil ( -2.4 )
f. ceil ( -3.4 )

23. Evaluate the value of the following expressions when x is 3.5, 3.45, 3.76, 3.234, and 3.4567:
a. floor (x * 10+0.5) / 10
b. floor (x * 100 + 0.5) / 100
c. floor (x * 1000 + 0.5) / 1000

24. Define the range of the random numbers generated by the following expressions:
a. rand() % 10
b. rand() % 4+4
c. rand() % 10 + 1
d. rand() % 52
e. rand() % 52 + 1
f. rand() % 52 - 5

25. What would be printed from Program 4-17 when run using 3 5 as data?

Program 4-17 | Program for Exercise 25
```c
1 #include <stdio.h>
2
3 // Function Declarations
4 int acme (int x, int y);
5
6 int main (void)
7 {
8 // Local Declarations
9 int a;
10 int b;
11 int r;
12 int s;
13
14 // Statements
15 scanf("%d %d", &a, &b);
16 r = strange(a, b);
17 s = strange(b, a);
18 printf("%d %d", r, s);
19 return 0;
20 } // main
21 //==========strange===========
22 int acme(int x, int y)
23 {
24 // Statements
25 return (x - y);
26 } // strange
```

26. What would be printed from Program 4-18 when run using 3 5 4 6 as data?

Program 4-18 Program for Exercise 26
```c
1 #include <stdio.h>
2
3 // Function Declarations
4 int strange(int x, int y);
5
6 int main(void)
7 {
8 // Local Declarations
9 int a;
10 int b;
11 int c;
12 int d;
13 int r;
14 int s;
15 int t;
16 int u;
17 int v;
18
19 // Statements
20 scanf("%d %d %d %d", &a, &b, &c, &d);
21
22 r = strange (a, b);
23 s = strange (r, c);
24 t = strange (strange (a, d), strange (4, 2));
25 u = strange (t + 3, s + 2);
26 v = strange (strange (strange (u, a), b), c);
27
28 printf("%d %d %d %d %d", r, s, t, u, v);
29 return 0;
30 } // main
31 --------------------------strange--------------------------
32 int strange (int x, int y)
33 {
34 // Local Declarations
35 int t;
36 int z;
37
38 // Statements
39 t = x + y;
40 z = x * y;
41 return (t + z);
42 } // strange
```

27. Draw the structure chart for Program 4-19. What output does it produce?

Program 4-19 Program for Exercise 27
```c
1 #include <stdio.h>
2
3 // Function Declarations
4 int funA (int x);
5 void funB (int x);
6
7 int main (void)
8 {
9 // Local Declarations
10 int a;
11 int b;
12 int c;
13
14 // Statements
15 a = 10;
16 funA (a);
17 b = 5;
18 c = funA (b);
19 funB (c);
20 printf ("%d %d %d", a, b, c);
21 return 0;
22 } // main
23
24 int funA (int x)
25 {
26 // Statements
27 return x * x;
28 } // funA
29
30 void funB (int x)
31 {
32 // Local Declarations
33 int y;
34
35 // Statements
36 y = x % 2;
37 x /= 2;
38 printf ("\n%d %d\n", x, y);
39 return;
40 } // funB
```

Problems

28. Write a function to print your name. Write a call as it would be coded in a calling function, such as main. The output should look like the following.
*************************************
*                                   *
*     Your Name Here                *
*                                   *
*************************************

29. Write a program that generates a random number from the following set:
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6

30. Write a program that generates a random number from the following set:
1, 4, 7, 10, 13, 16

31. Explain what is meant by the statement "a function should do only one thing."

32. Code and run Program 4.16, "Top-down design implementation example," to demonstrate how stubs work.

33. Write a function to convert inches into centimeters. (One inch is 2.54 centimeters.) Then write a program that prompts the user to input a measure in inches, calls the conversion function, and prints out the measurement in centimeters.

34. Write a program that reads three integers and then prints them in the order read and reversed. Use four functions: main, one to read the data, one to print them in the order read, and one to print them reversed.

35. Expand the calculator program, Program 4.15, to calculate the difference, product, quotient, and modulus of the numbers. Calculate the quotient and modulus in one function.

36. Modify Program 4.5, "Add two digits," to add the least significant three digits (hundreds, tens, and ones).

37. Write a function that receives a positive floating-point number and rounds it to two decimal places. For example, 127.565031 rounds to 127.570000. Hint: To round, you must first convert the floating-point number to an integer and then back to a floating-point number. Print the rounded values to six decimal places. Test the function with the following data: 
123.456789 123.499999 123.500001

38. Write a program that reads a floating-point number and prints the ceiling, floor, and rounded value. Use the function in Problem 37 for the average and test it with the same values as Problem 37.

39. Write a function to compute the perimeter and area of a right triangle (Figure 4.39) when given the length of the two sides (a and b).

Figure 4-39 Triangle for Problem 39
The following formulas may be helpful:

c² = a² + b²

area = .5 * (a * b)



Projects

40. Prepare a payroll earnings statement for the sales force at the Arctic Ice Company. All of Arctic's employees are on a straight commission basis of 12.5% of sales. Each month, they also receive a bonus that varies depending on the profit for the month and their length of service. The sales manager calculates the bonus separately and enters it with the salesperson's total sales for the month. Your program must also calculate the withholding taxes and retirement for the month based on the following rates:

a. 25% Federal withholding

b. 10% State withholding

c. 8% Retirement plan

Use the test data in Table 4-2 to test the program.

Table 4-2 Test data for Project 40

| SALESPERSON | SALES  | BONUS |
|-------------|--------|-------|
| 1           | 53,500 | 425   |
| 2           | 41,300 | 300   |
| 3           | 56,800 | 350   |
| 4           | 36,200 | 175   |


41. Write a program that, given a beginning balance in your savings account, calculates the balance at the end of 1 year. The interest is 3.5% compounded quarterly. Show the interest earned and balance at the end of each quarter. Present the data in tabular columns with appropriate headings. Use separate functions to compute the interest and print the balance.

42. The formula for converting centigrade temperatures to Fahrenheit is F = 32 + C * 180.0 / 100. Create a program that asks the user to enter a temperature reading in centigrade and then prints the equivalent Fahrenheit value. It then asks the user to enter a Fahrenheit value and prints out the equivalent centigrade value. Run the program several times. Be sure to include at least one negative temperature reading in your test cases. Provide separate functions as needed by your design. One possible design is shown in Figure 4-40. (Your main function should have only function calls.)

Figure 4-40 Possible design for Project 41

43. Write a program that uses standard functions. The program may be written entirely in main and must follow the pseudocode shown in Algorithm 4-1. Give the output appropriate captions and align the data.

    Algorithm 4-1 Pseudocode for Project 43

    1. Prompt the user to enter a number
    2. Read number
    3. Display number
    4. Get a random number and scale to range 3..37
    5. Display random number
    6. Set product to number * random number
    7. Display product
    8. Display ceiling of random number
    9. Display floor of product
    10. Display number raised to power of random number
    11. Display square root of random number

44. Write a C program that creates customers' bills for a carpet company when the following information is given:
a. the length and the width of the carpet in feet
b. the carpet price per square foot
c. the percent of discount for each customer

The labor cost is fixed at $0.35 per square foot. It is to be defined as a constant. The tax rate is 8.5% applied after the discount. It is also to be defined as a constant. The input data consist of a set of three integers representing the length and width of the room to be carpeted, the percentage of the discount the owner gives to a customer.and a real number representing the unit price of the carpet. The program is to prompt the user for this input as shown here. (Colored numbers are typical responses.)

Length of room (feet)? 20
Width of room (feet)? 16
Customer discount (percent)? 9
Cost per square foot (xx.xx)? 8.23

The output is shown here. Be careful to align the decimal points.

|              | MEASUREMENT | 
|--------------|-------------|
| Length       | XXX ft      |
| Width        | XXX ft      |
| Area         | XXX square ft |

| DESCRIPTION  |             | COST/SQ. FT. | CHARGE        |
|--------------|-------------|--------------|---------------|
| Carpet       |             | XXX.XX       | $XXXXX.XX     |
| Labor        |             | 0.35         | XXXXX.XX      |
| INSTALLED PRICE |            |              | $XXXXX.XX     |
| Discount     |             | XX %         | XXXXX.XX      |
| SUBTOTAL     |             |              | $XXXXX.XX     |
| Tax          |             |              | XXXXX.XX      |
| TOTAL        |             |              | $XXXXX.XX     |

The program's design should use main and at least the six functions described as follows:

a. Read data from the keyboard. This function is to use addresses to read all data and place them in the calling function's variables.

b. Calculate values. This function calls three subfunctions. Each function is to use addresses to store their results.
- Calculate the installed price. This function calculates area, carpet cost, labor cost, and installed price. The installed price is the cost of the carpet and the cost of the labor.
- Calculate the subtotal. This function calculates the discount and subtotal.
- Calculate the total price with discount and tax. This function calculates the tax and the total price.

c. Print the result. Use two subfunctions to print the results: one to print the measurements, and one to print the charges.

Test your program with the test data shown in Table 4-3.

Table 4-3 Test data for Project 44

| TEST | LENGTH | WIDTH | DISCOUNT | COST   |
|------|--------|-------|----------|--------|
| 1    | 23     | 13    | 12       | $14.20 |
| 2    | 35     | 8     | 0        | $8.00  |
| 3    | 14     | 11    | 10       | $22.25 |